812 add Get Started to ABM Readme (#813)
DLR-SC/memilio: cpp/models/abm/README.md

# Agent Based Model

> This module models and simulates the epidemic using an agent based model (*ABM*) approach. Unlike the SECIR compartment model that uses an ODE, this model simulates the spread of COVID19 in a population with actual persons (the agents) moving throughout locations in the world and interacting (infecting) with each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module models and simulates the epidemic using an agent based model (*ABM*) approach. Unlike the [SECIR](../ode_secir/README.md) compartmental model that uses a system of ODEs, this model simulates the spread of COVID19 in a population with discrete persons (the agents) moving throughout locations in the world and interacting with (infecting) each other.
```
A few suggestions:
- Link to the secir readme. Could also extend the link to 'SECIR comartmental model'
- I would call it is a system of ODEs, not just one, but I think technically either is correct
- Since we do not do human experiments, 'actual persons' is in my opinion the wrong term to use here. 'discrete' is (while correct) maybe not the best descriptor either, we could discuss this.
- This last one may be personal preference, but I read it as '[...] infecting with each other', which is weird. 

Since these changes are in a single line, I added them in one suggestion, but please do consider them separately.

## Structure

The model consists of the following major classes:

> 1. Person: represents the agents of the model. A person has an ID, i.e. a unique number, an age, a location and a list with their assigned locations, i.e. the locations they visit during the simulation. They can perform tests and wear masks. Every person has lists with past and current infections and vaccinations.

Reviewer: This slightly confuses me. Should a Person really represent multiple agents, or just one each?
Moreover, saying 'a person represents agents' seems the wrong way around. Shouldn't the agent be a representation of a (group of) person(s)?

2. Infection: collection of all information about a persons infection, i.e. infectiousness, infection course, virus variant. The infection course is drawn stochastically from the infection states that are similar to the compartments of the SECIR model.

> 3. Location: represents locations in the world where people meet and interact, e.g. home, school, work, social events. A location can be split into cells to model parts of a location like classrooms in a school. Some infection parameters are location specific and one can activate NPIs like mandatory masks or tests to enter the location.

Reviewer: - 'a location represents a location' is tautological, I suggest using 'place' instead
- 'social events' are not a place. I suggest 'social event sites'

4. World: collection of all persons and locations. It also holds information about the testing strategy of the simulation and holds the rules for the migration phase.
5. Simulation: runs the simulation and stores results.

## Simulation

The simulation runs in discrete time steps. Each step has two phases, an interaction phase and a migration phase.

### Interaction Phase

> In this phase each person interacts with the other persons at the same location. This interaction determines the transmission of the desease. A susceptible person can become infected by contact with an infected person. The probability of infection depends on a multitude of factors, such as the viral load and infectiousness of the infectee and the immunity level of the susceptible person.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this phase each person interacts with the other persons at the same location. This interaction determines the transmission of the disease. A susceptible person can become infected by contact with an infected person. The probability of infection depends on a multitude of factors, such as the viral load and infectiousness of the infectee and the immunity level of the susceptible person.
```

### Migration Phase

> During the migration phase, each person may change location. Migration follows complex rules, taking into account the current location, time of day, and properties of the person (e.g. age). Some location changes are deterministic and regular (e.g. going to work), others are random (e.g. going to shopping or to a social event in the evening/on the weekend).

Reviewer: 'During the migration phase, each person may change locations' or 'their location'.

Maybe mention where the migration rules are defined, and whether they can be changed?

> Another way of migration we use in the simulation of Braunschweig (simulations/abm_braunschweig.cpp) is using trips. A trip consists of the ID of the person that performs this trip, a timepoint when this trip is performed and where the person is heading to. In the beginning of the simulation a list with all trips is initialized and followed during the simulation. There can be different trips on the weekend than during the week but other than that the agents do the same trips every day assuming they are not in quarantine or in the hospital.

Reviewer: The last sentence in this paragraph contains a lot of infos with little punctuation, maybe consider rewriting it or splitting it up.

## Get Started

This section gives an introduction how to use the ABM and setup your own simulation. For a quick overview can find a full example in the [abm minimal example](../../examples/abm_minimal.cpp) and a more detailed doxygen documentation [here](https://dlr-sc.github.io/memilio/documentation/index.html). For a guide on installation and running the simulations and examples see this [README](../../README.md).

Every person in the ABM belongs to an AgeGroup which we can define:

```cpp
size_t NUM_AGE_GROUPS         = 4;

> const auto AGE_GROUP_0_TO_4   = mio::AgeGroup(NUM_AGE_GROUPS - 4);

Reviewer: This 'NUM_AGE_GROUPS - n' still confuses me, why not simply write the number? I would argue that it is an unnecessary complication, and inconsistent with other comments or code that use e.g. `AgeGroup(0)`. It would also make this example easier.

> ```

Reviewer: We are going to rename age groups and num_age_groups to use only lower-case letters (see #846), should we make these changes now, or in a new PR?

The initial empty world is created with the number of age groups:

```cpp

> auto world = mio::abm::World(NUM_AGE_GROUPS);

Reviewer: Please mention that all age groups must have values striclty smaller than num_age_groups, i.e. values in [0, num_age_groups).

Reviewer 2: did that

```

> We can set a lot of general parameters. Here is an example where we set the duration of the incubation period to 4 days:

Reviewer: Would it make sense to link to the parameters.h file, as a list of all parameters? Or maybe refer to the doxygen documentation.

Another way of migration we use in the simulation of Braunschweig (simulations/abm_braunschweig.cpp) is using trips. A trip consists of the ID of the person that performs this trip, a time point when this trip is performed and where the person is heading to. At the beginning of the simulation, a list with all trips is initialized and followed during the simulation. There can be different trips on the weekend than during the week, but other than that, the agents do the same trips every day. As before, agents that are in quarantine or in the hospital cannot migrate.

## Get Started

This section gives an introduction to how to use the ABM and set up your own simulation. For a quick overview, can find a full example in the [ABM minimal example](../../examples/abm_minimal.cpp) and a more detailed Doxygen documentation [here](https://scicompmod.github.io/memilio/documentation/index.html ). For a guide on installation and running the simulations and examples, see this [README](../../README.md).

> Every person in the ABM belongs to an AgeGroup, which we can define as the following. Note that every age group has to have values strictly smaller than num_age_groups.
> 
> ```cpp
> size_t num_age_groups         = 4;
> const auto age_group_0_to_4   = mio::AgeGroup(0);
> ```
> 
> The initial empty world is created with the number of age groups:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Every person in the ABM belongs to an AgeGroup, which we can define as follows:

```cpp
size_t num_age_groups         = 4;
const auto age_group_0_to_4   = mio::AgeGroup(0);
const auto age_group_5_to_14  = mio::AgeGroup(1);
...                           = ...
```

Note that every age group has to have values strictly smaller than the number of age groups `num_age_groups`.
With this number we create an empty world:
````

```cpp
auto world = mio::abm::World(num_age_groups);
```

We can set several general parameters, which you can find [here](../abm/parameters.h). Here is an example where we set the duration of the incubation period to 4 days:

```cpp
world.parameters.get<mio::abm::IncubationPeriod>() = 4.
```

To add a location to the world, we have to specify the kind of location.

```cpp
auto home = world.add_location(mio::abm::LocationType::Home);
```

People are added with an age. Then we have to assign them, so the world knows they can travel to this location.

```cpp

> auto person = world.add_person(home, mio::AgeGroup(0));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
auto person = world.add_person(home, age_group_0_to_4);
```

person.set_assigned_location(home);
```

> For adding more people to the world, we create households. A Household holds a vector with HouseholdMembers, i.e. a vector with weighted age distribution from which the age of the Persons belonging to this Household can be calculated. A Household and the number of times it exists is gathered in a HouseholdGroup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For adding more people to the world, we create households. A Household holds a vector of HouseholdMembers, which in turn hold a weighted distribution, such that we can randomly draw the age of each Person belonging to the Household. To manage multiple Households of the same type, we can use a HouseholdGroup.
```

I tried to make this more descriptive of what each class does, instead of what it is in code. Please check the correctness of the suggestion, I only skimmed over the code.

> For example, we have children who either belong to AgeGroup(0) or AgeGroup(1) with probability 0.5 in each case and parents which belong to AgeGroup(2) or AgeGroup(3) similarly. We then add households with a parent and a child and households with two parents and one child.

Reviewer: This is somewhat hard to read, please be more descriptive, e.g. "For example, to create a two parent household with two children ..." or similar.

auto testing_scheme_work =
    mio::abm::TestingScheme(testing_criteria_work, testing_min_time, start_date, end_date, test_type, probability);
world.get_testing_strategy().add_testing_scheme(testing_scheme_work);
```

For some infections to happen during the simulation, we have to initialize people with infections.

```cpp
person.add_new_infection(mio::abm::Infection(rng, mio::abm::VirusVariant::Wildtype, person.get_age(), world.parameters, start_date, infection_state));
```

We can add restrictions for people after a specific date. For example, only 10% of the people go to social events after day 10.

```cpp
auto t_lockdown = mio::abm::TimePoint(0) + mio::abm::days(10);
mio::abm::close_social_events(t_lockdown, 0.9, world.parameters);
```

Then we run the simulation.

```cpp
sim.advance(mio::abm::TimePoint(0) + mio::abm::days(30));
```

If we want to track things in the simulation, we need to set up a logger, for example, to track all the TimePoints of each simulation step:

```cpp
struct LogTimePoint : mio::LogAlways {
        using Type = double;
        static Type log(const mio::abm::Simulation& sim)
        {
            return sim.get_time().hours();
        }
    };

> ```

Reviewer: This example is nice and short, but also somewhat useless. Could you log the entire TimeSeries instead?
The we could also mention print_table to output the results in a new code block near the end.

Reviewer 2: true, changed

> Now we just need to set up the History object and run the simulation with it. As a writer, we use the predefined DataWriterToMemory, which just saves the Timepoints in a vector. Afterwards, one can access it through get_log.

Reviewer: Make it clear that calling advance this way is incompatible with running the simulation as described in line 116-119. If both are called with t=tmax, the second advance will do effectively nothing.

Maybe even remove those lines altogether, or does it make sense to run an ABM without logging?

Reviewer 2: yes, changed

```cpp
    mio::History<mio::DataWriterToMemory, LogTimePoint> history;
    sim.advance(tmax, history);

>     auto log = history.get_log();

Reviewer: This is not a vector of TimePoints as you imply above! Please fix either this code snipped or change the description.

Reviewer 2: done
